During the First World War. Right. And when the
SATC was in operation there. And sneered at those
of us who were not in uniform, like me, who was an
instructor, and I was told that I had to remain,
that the college had to carry on, classes had to be
held as they had been held before the war. And I took
it as long as I could, so I went back into service. So
you gave up your teaching job there for the time
being. Yeah. Where did you go into service?
Louisville, Kentucky. I went into the artillery.
And I stayed there. Would have gotten my own
commission, but during the last month of my time in
Louisville, Kentucky, war ended and said they
wanted to know why I stayed here. So I packed up and
came home and attended Texas. I mean, came back,
took my old job.
You were starting to say you had an interesting
experience during the war.
In other words, in 1917, when all of them were going
in, I was going to go in too, you see, with the rest of
them. Dr. Bezell said no, that I'd stay. So I
stayed. And of course, I was...
And they drafted me. And I went in then as a draftee
from this area. And... Of course, as a draftee, I
became first sergeant of the company there.
I was there from September until December when
orders came that I was to be discharged.
I was discharged for being erroneously inducted
into military service.
Then after I'd been there that period of time, I
went back to A&M again, to my old job. And that's
when SATC was sneering and spitting at these boys,
and I decided I couldn't take it, so I went to the
field artillery. F-A-C-O-T-S, Field Artillery.
That was the initials of this company.
Then of course I was there Until about the time I was
to receive my commission, when I just checked out.
That ended my war service. So I have two
discharges, one on them and one just a discharge.
Because you were erroneously inducted.
Erroneously inducted in the military service. I
imagine there are not very many people who have two
discharges from World War I. No. I actually had
three. I had one in the National Guard. I joined the
National Guard after I come back. You say you
joined after you came back? From World War I.
Uh-huh. How long were you in the National Guard
then? I don't know just how long. About a couple of
years, I imagine, then we disbanded. And you were
in the National Guard then in Bryan and College
Station? Right.
Uh-huh.
At
one point, I believe you were named as a
distinguished student from Texas A&M. Yeah. Was
that a fairly high honor for you to receive? It was.
That was in recognition of what, your
contribution to teaching?
Well, my contribution as a student.
Now, you didn't have reference to this honorary
degree I got. No, this was the Association of
Former Students at Texas A&M named you a
distinguished alumnus. It was, well, I've
forgotten exactly how many years ago. See, I was
president of that association, you know, and it
was the largest organization on the campus.
Now, you were president of the Alumni
Association? I was president of the Student
Organization.
Scientific Agricultural Association. I think
that's what it was called. You get that from the
annual, but that's what it was called. What I had
reference to was something which the Former
Students Association at Texas A&M awarded you a
certificate as a distinguished alumnus. This
would have been while you were teaching here at
Tech.
No. I thought you had received one of those. No. No,
I haven't. I
received an
honorary doctorate degree. That was from whom?
Texas A&M. Texas A&M? Yeah. When did you receive
that? In 56 or 57, somewhere. Of course, that's the
highest degree I could receive from A&M. of which
I'm, of course, very proud. Up to that time, I was
called a degree I.N. I got a bachelor's here, a
master's today at Missouri, and then I got this
honorary doctorate from Texas A&M.
Okay.